welcome to slash forward in this video
we're going to continue our saga of
never-ending pain
by examining the survival odds of a new
batch of traps with the follow-up to saw
saw too be sure to hit that like button
if you're starting to feel like
jigsaw may be on to something to start
i'll unpack the storyline to see what we
can learn
let's get to it we open in a dank cell
where a man wakes up to discover himself
the victim of a supra elective surgery
he cries for help as a screen powers on
nearby
as the tube warms up we see billy the
puppet with a classic message
i want to play a game turns out michael
is a
filthy snitch and he's being graciously
provided the chance to prove
his worth if he's willing to give up his
precious eyeball he's always going on
about he'll find a key that will release
the mask before it snaps shut
rendering his head useless instead he
spazzes out which is what trips the
timer but it allows him to reach the
toolbox
but it only contains a scalpel he tries
to build up his courage with a pep talk
you've got this you magnificent bastard
but he poops out quickly
sealing his fate we then meet up with
officer matthews down at joovy to pick
up his son daniel he tries to get him
straightened out but he's just such a
sassy young boy
feeling bad about screaming directly
into his face he tries calling the next
day to apologize but gets the voicemail
he then gets called to a crime scene
carrie's there to fill him in on the vic
about five nine
caucasian pantsless and possibly eric's
informant
except he can't be identified by his
face luckily
eric knows his body and confirms it's
him via tattoo
also he has a familiar wound giving them
a general idea of what went down here
also also this one was personal as the
culprit left a bold message calling out
matthews
back at the precinct eric is pissed
about how carrie dropped that big reveal
on him out of nowhere but she hoped it
would entice him to help her with her
case despite his heavy workload
he sleeps on it at which point a clue
basically slaps his face
so he calls it in and after consulting a
map they arrive with the cavalry for a
daylight industrial raid
jon is inside enjoying his cup of
noodles in a dean koontz novel while the
boys get themselves caged up in a
stairwell this first group gets shin
boned and electrocuted providing a good
visual reminder for the next round of
soldiers to take it easy and proceed
with caution
but that was all he had in him as john
is soon bodily restrained
eric then gets up in his face is this
close enough
and celebrates way too early so john
leans back like i'm a chill here while
you deal with that adjacent room they
clear the room of danger
finding it to contain an entire radio
shack's worth of equipment
the monitors reveal a remote location
with an entire room full of potential
victims
daniel among them but as a bona fide
hard ass
eric immediately lays in with the
threats but gets nothing but playful
taunts in return and is informed
that the occupants of that funhouse are
sucking on nerve gas
and have about two hours to live back in
the room the group spent about 15
minutes of their precious time without
even getting to introductions yet and
when it begins to dawn on them
they've been kidnapped things start to
get heavy when the final victim wakes up
we see it's her old friend amanda with a
fresh new look
they all watch in amazement as she
immediately begins rooting around to try
to solve their escape room and quickly
unearths a tape player the tape informs
them they're breathing in a deadly nerve
agent
and may earn their continued survival by
solving puzzles and finding several
doses of antidote lying around
they're in competition with each other
but also have a common thread
that if discovered may help them open
the safe and acquire some doses
but xavier is not into games so he takes
the forbidden key and uses it on the
door
thereby eliminating the second eyeball
thus far amanda then gets put up against
the wall but explains she has an inkling
of what's going on because she's lived
through it before and encourages them
all to play by the rules
meanwhile the cops call in the tech boys
to try to trace the feet
while they wait jon asks for a clear
room so we can talk one-on-one with eric
since he's already in more pain than
they can inflict eric agrees to start
with the talking part
just to humor him back in the torture
room while they look for clues they find
out they're playing with bumpers engaged
as the door eventually just
opens on its own despite their prior
experiences xavier is a lone wolf
and he goes to look for a way to bust
out while jonas advocates for taking it
easy and trying to think their way
through as they work on that
eric saddles up to hash things out in
this interlude we learned that jon takes
a puzzle piece of skin from his victims
to symbolize their missing survival
instinct
he also lets on that he's well aware of
eric matthews and his history of
excessive force and
shady convictions while this is going on
xavier manages to nail bat the front
door to pieces but finds a sturdy metal
framework behind it seeing his chance to
shine
jonas steps up to attempt to unravel
whatever it is that connects them all
but is promptly interrupted
when laura finds a door that opens they
all file downstairs and find a victim
or a doll or something and it has a task
for abi to redeem his life of lies and
cons he can play a game for two doses
one for him is a thank you for helping
to abduct the others
and another to hand out however he sees
fit he seems ready to go in but they go
ahead and threaten him for good measure
honestly he seems a bit too fearless to
be a jigsaw victim
i think i'm getting confused about the
overarching philosophy
here he climbs right into the innocent
incinerator and freely yanks the chain
with
second dose this closes and locks the
door while also starting up the broiler
he burns slowly inside as they learn
outside just how hot
fire can be they managed to break out a
window but he dies
halfway out while his juicy cheeks are
roasted like sunday dinner
back at the warehouse eric is growing
disappointed as he's subjected to a
lecture on evolution
i've never murdered anyone in my life
while john relishes in the scent of his
own farts
all of this was precipitated by him
learning his own expiration date and
desiring to help others get woke like
him
he discovered the strength of his own
frail body after testing his limits
then we get a little lost and who is
supposed to be appreciating
whom's life between eric and his son
daniel and all the while time is running
out
at the house the gang is still rooting
around trying to forget that their
bodies are slowly falling apart we learn
that amanda is likely
back due to not appreciating her new
life again but jonas interrupts them to
let them know they found a new door with
no lock
however it is stuck xavier forces his
way in
and predictably sets off a timer and we
learn this is actually his room
in order to find a key before the door
in front of them locks permanently he
has to descend into a pit of syringes
however instead of proving himself the
industrious loner he tosses in amanda to
sift through for him
she goes at it like an american ninja
warrior and somehow manages to find the
key
but it's just after the timer runs out
she then crawls out looking like the
most disgusting porcupine as they all
stand around awkwardly the silence is
broken when laura stumbles in and points
out that it seems they've all been to
prison at some point but since this is
getting a bit personal xavier again
follows his own path time is really
getting tight at the lair and carrie
keeps suggesting they let this thing
play out
instead they opt to push things along by
threatening jon's work as eric makes a
huge show about throwing a fit
john calmly counts off eric's many
professional transgressions
the tech team finally arrives but before
eric can join them jon
asks someone to retrieve a special
folder from his work desk it identifies
the victims and they all had been
arrested by eric and convicted based on
evidence he planted meanwhile xavier
attempts to see if he can have a go at
the safe
but after disturbing gus's corpse he
realizes they all have the numbers for
the combination lock printed on the
backs of their necks
jonas pops in real quick to show him
what he ate for lunch and then makes
another attempt to appeal to xavier's
better nature
instead xavier attacks him for the
privilege of reading his neck and jonas
does
admirably against the younger larger
aggressor unfortunately he gets hit with
another bout of gi bleeding and takes a
nail bat to the back of the head out in
the hall laura takes a breather which
puts her in direct line of sight of the
x they've been looking for the special
surprise here is a picture of danny and
daddy this reflects unfavorably on him
which seems to hurt his feelings a bit
then as laura bubbles out
her final breath addison decides it's
time for her to spread her wings and fly
shortly after the rest of them scatter
when they hear xavier pounding down the
hall yelling for them he finds the
cursed photo and tries to politely
convince them to let him check their
necks out while brandishing a large
knife
addison finds a fresh trap with a fun
surprise in that plunger has been
adhered to the bottom
well only way to fix that is to reach in
with the other hand wait a minute her
screams attract
unwanted attention and xavier shows her
just the right amount of affection to
get her number
and then he leaves her in her pitiable
state with time nearly out
eric goes in old school style employing
brutality to extract information it ends
when he offers up a snack and jon
finally agrees to show him the house
but only him so they take the secret
rear entrance as the others stand there
and watch
and it's right when the tech crew gets a
lock on the signal so everyone converges
presumably on the same location
where at that moment the final two are
attempting to hold off xavier
amanda notices blood draining into a
trap door under the safe
so they take a chance on it and find a
long hallway that they run down with
xavier close behind
eric rolls up and is given a key to get
in he takes it pretty slow but
is feeling the pressure there's evidence
here that he is in the right place but
everything
seems more desiccated somehow and then
the swat team arrives but they don't run
across eric and they're not showing up
on the camera feed back at the lair
daniel and amanda get to the end of the
road which terminates in a familiar
environment
when xavier catches up amanda tries to
barter for their safety by pointing out
he needs them to read his number
threatening his ability to solve his own
problems and with nearly a reflective
surface to be found
he demonstrates his extreme survival
instincts
then he moves in on them and we see
danny was possuming and hack saws
xavier's throat wide open
back with the swat team they uncovered
the control station revealing the feed
is not live it was pre-recorded
eric then arrives at the final crime
scene horrified to find
not a single living soul and he's jabbed
with a strong sedative
back at the lair time runs out and a
nearby safe opens inside that safe
a young man permanently traumatized for
the sake of teaching someone else a life
lesson
with that we return to eric who wakes up
to find a tape the voice on it is
amanda's
explaining her origin story and how
she's a disciple of old john kramer now
she ensnared eric in their trap to get
revenge for what he did
or to teach him how to appreciate life
it's hard to say for sure
she then shows up with the glow up so he
knows that she's doing all right and
then closes him into the dark
with that now established let's get to
the question of how to effectively
navigate this ordeal like last time we
have a few scenarios that pretty much
result in an assured death the part
that's different about them is that in
some cases the victim could choose
whether or not to even start the process
so while the trap itself may not have
been intended to provide a way for an
honorable scumbag to earn their way out
of it
they could have still survived by
sidestepping the whole thing
since you are obviously much more than
an honorable scumbag this bodes well for
you
if you were to find yourself in a
similar situation going through
somewhat in order let's get the venus
flytrap out of the way we're starting to
see a theme here with ripcord initiated
timers
now the victims wouldn't necessarily
know to watch out for this
possibly yet some of them were familiar
with the jigsaw stories and as the
timeline goes on
some of these simple details may be
considered common knowledge
anyway even in the not knowing it still
speaks to the wisdom of keeping a level
head and assessing your surroundings
in this style of trap i have a hard time
presuming there's anything the victim
could do
other than mustering up the intestinal
fortitude to go through with the task
unlike with the house where they have a
wide area to explore many possible
options
these single room single trap scenarios
usually seem
pretty locked down there aren't really
other objects to find or
use and all points of exit are pretty
well sealed off
so yeah he could take all the time he
wanted in the beginning but i'm not sure
this would have gotten him much further
than he got other than providing the
space to mentally prepare him to perform
a surgery on his
own face which would be incredibly
difficult to go through with
even if facing death i think our brains
would probably try to distract us with
thoughts of possible alternatives to get
out of having to make that final
decision
it is easier to self-destruct through
inaction than to make a proactive choice
moving on to the house this overall
scenario seems like one designed to
result in depth
i think a lot of the traps in here were
fairly easy or relied significantly on
luck
but beyond that there wasn't a lot of
substance here the clues for the safe
combo were presented at the beginning
and even if they could have focused long
enough to figure it out it's not
entirely clear how much they would have
gained from that they still very slowly
moved from trap to trap failing along
the whole way
the only means of escaping altogether
was to get an antidote so you could live
out the supposed timer that would
release you from the house but they
spent most of their time scouring the
hallways and looking for clues
rather than finding trap rooms and
earning antidotes
first part of surviving this you have to
play the game if you want to win it so
what did they find there were two
possible doses in the basement for
abby's game
again this one was easy yeah they were
compelling him to go in and retrieve the
doses but there could have been other
avenues to take
this setup is so simple it's obviously a
trap and the clear intention is to lock
him in
you could proceed carefully test weight
on the bottom possibly look for
something near you to jam into the door
to prevent it from closing all the way
once inside one dose was easy to grab
the other was more solidly connected to
a chain
i can't for the life of me imagine why
you would ever pull that chain
a few seconds of examination would
reveal whether that syringe was viable
he also could have made that the dose
that he used on himself by injecting it
while it was still attached to the chain
and this is all preparation you have to
set yourself up for success on the front
end because once that door is locked
you're toast on the subject of the
basement this area did not appear to be
fully cleared out it would be advisable
to spend some time rooting around here
for useful tools or objects
anything long and sturdy like a
broomstick or handle of any type would
be useful
also any shorter metal tools could come
in handy there's a trick you could do
with two wrenches to put lateral force
on the shackle of a padlock which it was
not designed to withstand
it's an easy way to pop open any
standard lock and that seems like a
handy trick
next is the needle pit this is a game of
pure luck the instructions just said you
were looking for a needle with a key on
it it didn't clarify it'd be set up like
a glow stick if i didn't know there was
a way to distinguish the correct needle
and i was looking at this pit
i would have just moved on i mean these
needles were dirty as an alternative you
could use your broom handle from the
basement to stir things up and see if
that creates any opportunities for you
also working backward this is another
game initiated purely by impatience
it was rightly pointed out not to trust
door with no lock that seemed stuck
if he had simply held it partially open
for one of the ladies to slip through
they might have been able to detach the
cable without pulling the other end from
the timing device
finally we have the dual hand traps this
is probably the easiest one
at least it was for me having gotten my
hands caught in quite a few raccoon
traps in my day
i know time was running out and people
weren't thinking clearly however
you can see through this acrylic box
that the syringes adhere to the bottom
that alone should warrant a little care
and consideration other than that there
are two easy outs here
first one obviously would be to again
employ the broomstick to push open the
razor sphincter so you could safely
reach in to carefully disconnect the
syringe and get that sweet sweet juice
flowing through your veins
the other would be once you've reached
in and destroyed your life-saving
antidote don't reach in the other side
what were you even trying to do just use
your finger to push up and relax the
sphincter and then retrieve your wrist
it's really not that hard as a final
thought it should also be noted that
xavier pointed out early on that they
were just in a house not a fortress
but after breaking through one door he
gave up immediately did they assume they
were inside a house that was fully
wrapped in metal
why would they not have checked any
other doors or windows or as xavier
implied go straight through a wall
somewhere there could have been
impediments to this but they did not
explore the idea sufficiently to
demonstrate it to be an unviable
option with all that said i think it
would be very reasonable to think that
most of us could have found a way to
acquire a dosage of antidote and
comfortably wait out the timer
the odds of this are increased if you
identify early on any characters like
xavier ensure you take them out of the
game to prevent them from mucking things
up i genuinely hope you take this advice
to heart and i wish you well in any of
your possible future trap endeavors
before we go i'd like to give a huge
thanks to my donors memorialized in the
hall of head shots
and as an fyi i have a website set up
where you can support the channel
through donations or merch
any donation unlocks uncensored movie
reviews of life force and under the skin
with others to be added over time and if
you enjoyed the video i would love for
you to become part of the channel by
subscribing thanks for watching